## Using _VS Code_ to<br>Open and Edit Files

### Learning Objectives

<br>

<p>Students will be able to:</p>

- Get acquainted with common developer tools, Chrome Developer Tools and VSCode text editor

---

### What is _VS Code_?

<br/>

- _VS Code_ is a popular open-source text-editor maintained by Microsoft.

- It's very customizable and capable.

- VS Code's functionality can be extended using _extensions_, however, most useful features are built-in.

- To try it out, let's use VS Code to open and edit a file...

---

### Add _VS Code_ to <code>\$PATH</code>

- We want to be able to type in `code .` in Terminal and have VS Code open the current directory for editing.

- First, open VS Code's **Command Palette** by pressing `⇧⌘P`.

- Next, type "shell command" and select the `Shell Command: Install 'code' command in PATH` command.

- Restart Terminal for the new \$PATH to take effect.

> For the above to work, VS Code must be installed in the **Applications** folder

---

### Edit a File in VS Code

<br/>

- To edit a specific file in VS Code, we can simply type the file after `code`.

- Let's add an _alias_ (shortcut) command that will change to your class repo directory by simply typing `repo`. 
We can do this by editing the hidden `.bash_profile` file.

```sh
$ code ~/.bash_profile

		-OR-

$ code ~/.zprofile
```


---

### Edit a File in VS Code (cont.)

<br/>

- Now add this line (preferably near other aliases)

`$ alias repo='cd ~/code/<path to repo folder>'`

- Pressing `cmd-s` will save the file.

- Close Terminal then re-open it and type `repo` to test it out.

---
### VSCode Shortcuts
* Command Palette: **CMD Shift P**
* File Search: **CMD P**
* Show Sidebar: **CMD B**
* Show Panel: **CMD J**
* Panel Tabs: Shift CMD **M U Y**  
* Terminal: **CTRL carrot / ctl `**
* Markdown Preview: **CMD K, V** 
* Split Panel Horizontally: **CTRL+\\**
* Find in document/page: **CMD f**
* Find in Workspace: **CMD Shift F**

---
### Emmet Snippets and Actions

```css

#page>div.logo+ul#navigation>li*5>a{Item $}

```

Can be transformed into this with just a single key stroke.

```html
<div id="page">
    <div class="logo"></div>
    <ul id="navigation">
        <li><a href="">Item 1</a></li>
        <li><a href="">Item 2</a></li>
        <li><a href="">Item 3</a></li>
        <li><a href="">Item 4</a></li>
        <li><a href="">Item 5</a></li>
    </ul>P
</div>
```

[Emmet Cheatsheet](https://docs.emmet.io/cheat-sheet/)
