# Intermediate Tools

### Lesson Objectives

-   Reiterating Control Flow
-   Do... While... Loop
-   Destructuring and the Rest Operator
-   Split and Join Revisited
-   eval
-   Sets

## Setup

1. Navigate to the `student_examples` folder for today.
2. Create a file called `intermediate_tools.js` to use for practice code.
3. Open it in your text editor. Add a console log and run your code to confirm that you can see the output in your terminal.

<hr>

## What is Control Flow?

Control flow is the way your branches into different paths. 3 Main aspects of your code will determine the flow of your code...

-   Conditionals (if, switch, ternary)
-   loops (while, for, do)
-   functions

## Do... While...

This is a loop that runs the code at least once before evaluating the expression the first time.

```
x = 0;

do {
  console.log('hello')
} while (x !== 0)

```

## Destructuring and the Rest Operator

The rest operator allows you to store the remaining items of a collection into a variable when destructuring.

```
const myArr = [1,2,3,4,5,6]

const [one, two, ...theRest] = myArr

console.log(one, two, theRest)

```

## Split and Join Revisited

Split will split a string into an array based on the character passed in as an argument.

```
const myString = 'Hello World'

const words = myString.split(' ')

console.log(words)

```

Join will join an array into a string using the charachter passed in as an argument.

```
const myArr = ['hello', 'world']

const newString = myArr.join(' ')

console.log(newString)
```

## eval

The eval function takes a string and evaluates it as a javascript expression

```
eval('console.log("hello world")')

```

## Sets

Sets are a special datatype that doesn't allow duplicates, a good tool for removing duplicates from arrays.

```
const myArr = [1,1,1,2,2,2]

const mySet = new Set(myArr)

const newArr = [...mySet]

console.log(newArr)

```

## Additional Array topics

-   multi dimensional arrays
-   selecting the last element in an array
-   Array Methods (indexOf, push, pop, shift, unshift, reverse, slice, splice, sort)
-   passing values and references
